(bright music)
- So we often get the question,
if somebody can use separate handles
as an accessory with X3.
There are little handles
that I guess something
can replace a bar and hook on to banding.
Which is not a possible thing
for a number of reasons.
I'm gonna explain all those reasons.
Number one,
when I talk about keeping
the wrists neutral
when you're holding the bar,
or when you're holding the bar like this,
when we wanna keep the wrists protected.
You want a continuous bar
that connects both hands
'cause they balance each other.
When you separate, this can happen,
you can twist your wrist
and some of the smallest
bones in the body,
outside the ear, are right
here and in the ankles
and this X3 is designed to protect you
from that sort of twisting.
So that issue is not fixed
when you have separated handles.
Now, this also coincides
with some research
that shows that people
that train with dumbbells
and people that train with barbells,
the ones that train with dumbbells
activate 20% less muscle.
So, when looking at that research,
like if you activate 20%, less muscle,
obviously, you're missing out on 20%
of what you could possibly be stimulating.
But there's also sort of a basic idea
where when you look at a human,
and if that human has to
pick up something heavy,
that heavy object is gonna
be grabbed with both hands.
It's like if you have
something heavy to pick up,
you don't put one hand behind your back
and try and lift it up with one hand.
I mean, maybe somebody
out there would do that
but that wouldn't be smart,
because of the size of the
musculature in each arm
and it doesn't really match
what's going on in the lower body.
You also have to think about balancing.
It doesn't make a lot of sense
to necessarily train both
legs at the same time.
Because humans walk on one leg at a time,
and we run on one leg at a time.
So unless you're a kangaroo,
training one leg at a
time makes perfect sense.
Which is why we have everyone
graduate to single leg squats.
But when it comes to the upper body,
the combined strength
of the entire upper body
can match one leg.
That's where the balances is.
So you pick up something heavy,
and then you can march
on one leg at a time
with that heavy object.
You wouldn't pick up two
heavy objects at once.
If you have heavy objects to pick up,
you use both hands pick up one,
you use both to pick up the next one.
I did a Falsehoods of Fitness
video with Chris Bell,
not that long ago and I asked him,
strongest people in the
world, what do they use?
Barbells or dumbbells?
And he said, barbells.
I didn't discuss any
science with him beforehand
and I didn't precondition
him for the question.
But yes, they use barbells
because barbells make you stronger,
dumbbells really don't.
And so separating the hands,
it's not what you wanna do.
Now, we do have one exercise
where we don't use the bar or the plate,
and that's the crossover.
That's because to really
get the hardest contraction
of the pectoral,
and this is really just
an aesthetic movement.
There's nothing functional about it.
So if you want the biggest pectorals,
you do the chest press,
and then you might wanna immediately go
and kind of super set the exercise
with a crossover where you
throw the band around your back
and you do this to get
the hardest contraction
right here in the pectoral
because while this is
considered fully contracted,
this is an even greater
contraction of the pectorals.
But of course you can't do
chest press going across.
So what we do is just
isolate the pectorals
for that particular movement.
So if handles worked, if they were smart,
I would have much preferred
to engineer a set of handles over this,
because it would be a
lot easier at airports,
and it would have been a
lot cheaper to manufacture
and cheaper to sell.
But it just so happens that
that's not how the body works.
The body works with bars better,
so we have a bar.